the leader of Hamas Ishmael Haner has
been in Egypt for talks on halting the
fighting with Israel to allow
humanitarian Aid into Gaza Israel's
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
once again ruled out a ceasefire until
Hamas is eliminated and the remaining
hostages are freed several countries
including Germany classify Hamas as a
terrorist organization meanwhile there
has been no letup in attacks on the
Palestinian
territory there is no end to scenes like
this in the Gaza the street several
Israeli air strike hitting the southern
city of Rafa survivors rushed to barely
functioning hospitals with little hope
for safety anywhere in the
territory all of a sudden the first
rocket landed destroying everything by
the time the second rocket hit we
weren't able to see anything in the
house anymore we barely made it out the
whole house fell down we found a woman
who had just given birth via cesarian
and were able to drag her out with her
baby girl who was choking she was taking
her last breaths there she is over
there the UN estimates that nearly 60%
of all gaza's infrastructure has been
damaged or destroyed in more than 90% of
the population
displaced as the smoke from the latest
bombardment fills the sky above rougher
some of them share their
desperation we came from the north
and they said you should head to
Rafa it's a safe
place they followed us to Rafa and hid
us where is it safe where should we
go I wish for a complete ceasefire an
end to the death and suffering it's been
75 days people are still getting killed
there's still people under the rubble I
don't hear from many people
Communications are out
negotiations are taking place that could
lead to a new temporary truce but many
differences still need to be
overcome qatar-based Hamas leader isma
hania traveled to KY on Wednesday for
talks with Egyptian
officials the group which is considered
a terrorist organization by multiple
countries says it only wants a permanent
ceasefire something ruled out by Israel
with prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
saying that is impossible until Hamas is
defeated now epat machika is from Israel
her Uncle gillad Moses is still being
held hostage in Gaza after being
kidnapped during the Hamas terrorist
attacks on October 7th his partner
ephrat was killed in that attack his
wife and his partner's daughter and two
granddaughters were among the hostages
released during the weeklong ceasefire
Islamic Jihad militant group has just
released a video showing gillad in
captivity the first sign of life since
his abduction thank you so much for for
coming in eat so this is Gaddy Gaddy
yeah Gaddy Moses my
uncle um we had no news for 74
days and learned last night from a video
released that he is captured by the
Islamic
Jihad we just heard
um was hard to watch but we are people
of hope so seeing him alive gives us
hope so you had no idea until that 74
days no contact so how did this uh video
get to
you well I'm not so sure as I was here
but um I just got tons of messages on my
phone last last night and uh realized it
was released and then um I was sent the
video actually um I'm here in Berlin for
the event that took place today at the
Berlin Orchestra a Berling philarmonic
Orchestra and who was very very touching
I have to really thank them for the
wonderful event we held and uh what was
the what were you doing
the um Berlin philarmonic Orchestra has
played a
concert uh tonight um that was uh
dedicated for the release of the
hostages and for all the um idea
of having to think of what's going to
happen next and this was Palestinians
and Jews together together together for
Humanity um um it's very important for
me to actually stress the point that I'm
here on a non political
issue it's a human humanitarian human
human umari human not humanit yeah
humanitarian issue I think that the
brutal um
attack on the people on the innocent
people on that morning of of October 7th
was not only an attack on the Israeli
Jews and Arabs and the nepales and the
Tha and whoever was there it was an
attack on global Humanity it was an
attack showing us the destruction that
Terror can bring to the world and this
is why I'm here to talk about it to
stress how terrible it was how much we
all need to be cautious and Afraid
actually terrified of what can happen
with Terror and you you gave a speech at
the concert saying that you'll have to
learn to trust again what did you mean
by
that you
know my profession deals with cultural
diplomacy and for years I taught in the
Academia
um all sorts of dialogue within diverse
communities and um um communication
among diff different
people Saturday October
7th was not only an attack on my family
their Community my community and my
nation it was an attack on my beliefs I
feel we are in a moral hell and I
think the message really the global
message should go anywhere because what
happened there the atrocities the
terrible stories that are too difficult
for me to describe in words should be
learned and then there was this crack
crack in trust in humanity crack in
Trust of what I was preaching and
teaching in and working for all my life
and unless they are all back
alive I don't know how this trust can be
rebuilt so the return the safe return of
this
136 people that are still alive in Gaza
is a must and it has to be very quickly
because they're they're they're they're
dying there so how do we bring that that
about tell me what you think of the
Israeli government's efforts uh to to
get the hostages back it's the Israeli
government and it's the International
Community well let's start with well
let's start with isra no problem I think
that with help and pressure from the
International
Community and the talks we just heard
that I'm very glad to hear with our good
neighbors the
Egyptians the Israeli government has to
do all it takes to bring everybody is it
doing enough is there more that it could
be doing
now I think there is a shift in the last
two days and I
believe I want to
believe that everything but everything
is being done because there isn't price
there isn't any price price that then
cover my uncle's life and the rest of
the 13 and5 people in Gaza they have to
be back so does does Mr Netanyahu
therefore have to soften his line this
line that there will be no ceasefire
until Hamas is destroyed our prime
minister Netanyahu has to do everything
but he would say that he is well he will
have to prove they're back alive at home
we have to bring them back alive if they
do not come back
alive does that what does that what does
that say it it is that would is that a
failure of the Israeli government is
that a failure of Netanyahu is that
Hamas being terrible terrible people if
they if they don't come back alive what
does that tell you I told you I lost
trust in humanity but I did not lose
hope so so I don't even
think of a scenario where they don't
come back they will come back we're
strong enough where people who cherish
life they will come back the price might
be high for some people to think of but
whatever price it is whatever price it
is the lives of the
136 innocent Israelis has no price I
we're running out of time I would like
to just try and end on a hopeful note
because I I mentioned at the start that
amongst all this horror that that
happened that the killings and the
kidnappings
one glimmer of of light and hope was
that four of your family were actually
returned in that in that weekl long
ceasefire I cannot imagine what that
must have been like to be notified that
they were coming and then to see
them
it
was um a brief moment of
joy and we're very very grateful but it
will not be completed until everybody is
back so it's wonderful and you know we
all need to remember after their return
there is a long process of recovery it
will take very long time and The Echoes
the ripples of the pain and and the
sorrow and the mourning is enormous it
will take a long time for the trust for
the rebuild but as I said we are strong
we cherish life and life shall overcome
thank you so much for joining us eat
machika thank you very very much for
having me thank you
Germany